Good afternoon.
Thank you very much for coming.
This is session 512,
Game Solutions Open Play with
NetSprocket.
And today we have a very special
celebrity guest for you who will share
with us his knowledge and expertise
about network playing and open source.
I'm very happy to welcome to the stage,
from IdeaS to the Deep, Lane Roathe.
Thanks.
All right.
As he said, I'm Lane.
We're going to cover
OpenPlay with NetSprockets.
So, as an introduction, what is OpenPlay?
OpenPlay is part of
Apple's open source effort,
the Darwin group of open source projects.
It is a
has been out for a couple years
and we'll go into more about
where the open source effort is.
We'll also discuss the APIs briefly.
I will go through an actual
example of the NetSprocket
API and how to use it in code.
[Transcript missing]
will give you a demo of a couple of
a application that uses OpenPlay.
will also cover a little bit on
how OpenPlay and its APIs compare
to some of the other networking
APIs that are available.
And then we'll wrap up.
Okay, so as I said,
it's one of the open source
projects that Apple has put out.
Whoa, a little bit too far.
It's a collection of protocol and
platform independent APIs that
consists of three layers.
There's a game layer,
which is the NetSprocket layer.
That was formerly a
separate set of libraries.
It's now integrated.
is a high-level, easiest-to-use,
and can be used to get actual
networking going in a day,
if not just a few hours.
There's a set of protocol APIs.
That is the basic OpenPlay API that
everybody has known previously.
And it is basically a set of
APIs for talking to some type of
transport protocol and sending
and receiving information.
The NetModule APIs are what is used to
wrap each protocol API that the system
has into a set of common API calls.
So, a little bit of history on
OpenPlay and its contained NetSprocket.
OpenPlay started out as Uber.
It was developed by Bungie
with cooperation from Apple.
And they designed it from the ground
up to be running on multiple platforms
and using multiple protocols.
NetSprocket started its life
out as part of the GameSprockets
collection under OS 8 and 9.
It was originally based on OpenTransport
and therefore would obviously
only work under classic Mac OS.
Today's OpenPlay has made
a lot of strides over where
it has been even a year ago.
It has integrated the
NetSprocket API set,
so it's no longer part
of the game sprockets,
it's now part of OpenPlay.
NetSprocket is therefore
now cross-platform,
whereas before it would
only work under Mac OS,
it now works everywhere
that OpenPlay works.
NetSprocket is also backward
compatible with the 1.7 libraries,
so that if you have games out there that
you want to update to the newest one,
you can replace the NetSprocket
library and anybody who still has
the older versions of NetSprockets
will continue to be able to use it.
The open source community has become
very active over the past year.
There's been a lot of contributions,
a lot of new example applications,
testing, some new documentation,
and a lot of individual effort
on a few people to really
move the project forward.
It's now being used in
several shipping titles,
and we'll give you a list in
a little bit of some of those.
And those titles have been testing
Openplay for a whole bunch of
different types of networking,
and it's working very well.
In addition,
there is now a POSIX version of Openplay.
And that means that there's now an
Openplay that is native to Mac OS X.
It does not use Carbon.
There is also a version now for Linux.
In addition, the Windows version,
which used to use a Windows-centric API,
has been converted to use
the POSIX networking module
because it fixed several bugs.
Okay, so the open source effort,
although moving forward and actively
being maintained and improved,
can always use help.
We recently did a 2.1 release,
and this release included
some fixes to the way that
NetSprockets gathered messages,
and this fixed a lot of hard-to-reproduce
dropped packet problems.
It also included the POSIX build.
It included a couple of new programs.
There's a NetSprocket stress testing
application and a new example program.
Amen.
So if you are interested in helping
us out in order to move this project
forward and make it even better,
there's a couple things you can do.
You can visit the open source pages.
If you get the project and
you start working with it,
you make any modifications,
please be sure to submit those to us.
And then, of course,
the one thing that we really
haven't focused on is documentation,
so if you guys are using it
and you see there's a lack of a
documented feature or some errors,
you can tell us about them and
even better submit the changes.
That would really help us out as well.
Alright,
so what is the purpose of OpenPlay?
We'll cover that.
We'll cover a little bit
about the different API layers
and what they are used for.
And then we'll go on into the
actual usage of those APIs.
The whole purpose of OpenPlay is
to give developers a way of
getting networking into their code,
and specifically games.
is a multi-task networked application
that is designed to help developers to
integrate NetSprocket and OpenPlay in
as easy a manner as possible so
that you guys can concentrate on the
games and not writing network code.
is a platform that is
designed to be cross-platform,
and we're working very hard to make
sure that that continues to happen.
It currently runs on Mac OS 8, 9, and 10.
It runs under Windows,
and it now runs under
Linux with the 2.1 release.
There are a couple people working on
actual Unix builds for it as well.
And the main reason for the
Linux and the Unix builds would be,
for instance, servers.
It is also meant to be
protocol independent.
And while that isn't a
huge issue right now,
it does mean that if for some
reason one of the NetModules that
we provide does not work for you,
you want to use a
different TCP/IP protocol,
for instance, you can simply write a new
NetModule and drop it in a
replacement of the existing one.
For instance,
that is what we did with the
Windows one to fix the problems
in the Windows TCP/IP layer.
There is also AppleTalk support,
but that is only available
right now for Mac OS 8 and 9.
If anybody is really up on AppleTalk and
would like to provide us a Windows and
a Mac OS X client version of that,
that would be really great.
Is somebody down there
going to volunteer?
There are three layers available,
as I said earlier.
Let's get back there.
Okay.
They fit into your application
as this diagram shows.
At the very bottom is the
networking solution provided
by the operating system.
One or more
Talking to that are the net modules,
and they talk to the appropriate
protocol for that net module.
The protocol interface,
which is basically where you talk to to
do your sending and receiving of data,
talks to the net module
that is active at that time.
And NetSprocket,
which is the easiest-to-use
layer and provides a lot of
high-level functionality,
uses the protocol layer to
do all of its networking.
Your application can talk to any
one or more of the OpenPlay APIs at
any time in your program.
You can also, at the same time,
use any of the low-level OS networking
that you may want to use.
Okay,
so NetSprocket is your highest level one.
It manages information about games,
players, player groups.
Again,
it uses the protocol API for networking.
It's very easy to implement and use.
There's not a whole lot of information
that you have to set up for it.
There's very simple APIs that allow
you to get the networking up and going.
Without having to delve into all the
power that NetSprocket API provides.
is a multi-task network of software
and software development tools
that are used to deliver and
manage the data of NetSprocket.
In addition,
NetSprocket handles all of the
byte swapping requirements for
the transportation of your data,
meaning that the headers used to send and
receive data and the type information,
etc., are all byte swapped for you.
So all you have to do is
worry about your data.
You don't have to worry about any of
the data that NetSprocket handles.
is a very popular platform for networking
and networking for the Internet.
It also handles the reassembly of
packets for reliable streaming,
which if you are using sprockets or
if you're using the protocol API,
you have to worry about collecting
your data yourself and putting
it into meaningful packets.
If you're using NetSprocket,
everything you get is a complete packet.
The protocol API is basically
a simple abstraction layer
over the different protocols.
It uses the NetModule API in
order to have a simple,
consistent API for all of
the protocols that it uses.
It's a little bit easier to use than the
base underlying operating system APIs.
It does some things for
you that they do not.
But again,
it's basically just a wrap around them,
so you will have to do more
work than with net sprockets.
[Transcript missing]
The NetModule APIs,
being a wrapper around
the base low-level APIs,
are very rarely used by applications.
They're mainly just there for protocol,
but if you need to use them, that's fine.
They do contain a few specific calls for
each type of protocol that they wrap.
[Transcript missing]
We're going to go over some example code,
and this is new to the 2.1 release.
It wasn't in previous releases.
It was designed from the ground up
to be an actual example program to
be easy to follow and easy to use.
It should be able to drop into your game.
You would need to change a few functions,
put in some hooks for
handling your messages,
and be ready to go.
My goal in writing that code was
to give you guys something that in
two or three hours you could have
a networking game up and running.
So obviously it's well
documented in the code as well.
There are both NetSprock
API and Protocol API examples.
They're wrapped around a fully
functional client-host game.
You know, it's very simple.
It's text-based so that it will
run on Linux and whatever else.
But it does show you how to
handle players coming in,
going out,
sending messages back and forth, and,
you know, some basic error recovery.
So it should have all the basics that
you need to get a networking game going.
And it's all factored out
nicely into separate files.
So all the NetSprocket code is in
one file by itself that's meant to
be able to be dropped into your code.
Same thing for the Protocol API.
It's in a separate file by itself.
So again,
the whole goal of this was to create
something that programmers could use as a
starting point in their own applications.
Whereas existing examples previous to
2.1 mainly showed you interesting usages
of APIs and kind of documented them,
but they were mainly test apps.
So, we're going to cover the
NetSprocket API in actual code next.
This is all taken from the
example one source base,
although it has been hacked
up quite a bit in order to fit
into this slide presentation.
If you're wanting to see the actual code
and what it looks like in the compilable,
runnable state,
be sure to look at the source
code that is in the example
one folder in the source demo.
[Transcript missing]
Okay.
First thing you're going to
want to do if you're going to
use NetSprocket is start it up.
But before you do that,
you should probably make sure
that the OpenPlay library is
actually available to be used.
And one of the easiest ways to do
that is just make sure that the
NetSprocket initialize function
has been linked against your app.
Then it's just one simple call
to get NetSprocket started up,
and that's the initialized call.
In previous releases of NetSprocket,
there was a lot of variables for
memory usage and stuff that you could
set in order to make NetSprocket
more stable in your application.
We've totally redone the memory
usage in the 2.1 release.
The default values
should now always work.
You should not have to mess with those.
The only thing you should
really need to set is your
unique identifier for your game.
In almost all cases,
this is going to be your
application's creator code.
Once you've initialized it,
you're ready to start using it.
We're going to start by
creating a server connection and
listening on a port for clients.
So you're going to have to build a
protocol reference list to be used.
So first of all,
you're going to create the new list.
Then you're going to create a protocol.
In the example programs,
we only use the IP protocol
since it's the only one available
across all the platforms.
When you create the IP protocol,
you're going to pass it in the
port that you want to listen on.
is a software developer who has
been working on the NetSprocket
platform for over a decade.
and OpenPlay are cross-platform,
open source networking
APIs targeted at game developers.
First thing you're going to do
is pass it where you want the
game reference to be stored.
And the game reference is going
to be how you talk to NetSprocket
in order to send messages,
receive messages,
get information about games, users,
all that good stuff.
Then you're going to pass the pointer
to your reference list that you created.
You're going to tell it how
many players in this game,
what the maximum number of players
are in this particular game.
is a non-profit organization that
has been involved in the development
and development of NetSprocket.
[Transcript missing]
is a game developer who has
been working on a number of
applications for NetSprocket.
He is the director of
the NetSprocket team.
He is the head of the NetSprocket team.
He is the
and OpenPlay are cross-platform,
open source networking
APIs targeted at game developers.
So, to start up a client,
all you have to do to get the
basic point started is to tell
it the IP address and port,
assuming that you're talking to IP.
And those are C-springs that you pass in.
is a multi-task, multi-task,
multi-task software that is
designed to help developers
is a multi-task,
multi-task server that is
designed to serve the game.
It is designed to serve the
game in a way that is easy to
understand and easy to understand.
It is designed to serve the
game in a way that is easy to
understand and easy to understand.
is a multi-task network of software
and software development tools.
It is a multi-task network of software
Once you're in that join process,
your client has tried to
connect to the server.
It's going to send it a
message requesting it to be
allowed to join that game.
So, you're going to want to loop through
looking for messages telling you whether
that request is going to succeed or fail.
is a multi-task network of open
source networking APIs that are
designed to serve as a network
The best message you can get, of course,
is you're join approved.
And that just means that
your game connected,
the host saw the connection,
and approved your client
to start into the game.
Set your flags to start
the game up to true,
and you're done.
You also can get a couple of
reasons that the request can fail.
Your join denied is the most common.
That could be because the game is full,
the password didn't match.
If the game has banning,
maybe your name has been
banned for some reason.
You may also get a game terminate
if the host happened to quit at
the same time you tried to join.
And then you can also get the
error message if there was
some other error that happened.
In that case,
you just set your join flag to false,
and you're also done.
is a well-known network
of software developers.
Once you have looked at a message,
you want to release the message because
when NetSprocket sends it to you,
it actually sends you a handle and
you want to free that memory up.
As this slide says,
in the example program,
to save code and make
everything a little bit easier,
we put all the message
reading into one function,
and we use the same function
from both the join request and
the application's main loop.
Sending messages is fairly easy.
All you have to do is to
have a little message packet.
At the start of every message packet is
going to be a NetSprocket message header.
This contains everything that
NetSprocket needs in order to send
and receive and parse these messages.
[Transcript missing]
is a multi-task, multi-task, multi-task,
multi-task, multi-task, multi-task,
multi-task.
And to do that,
in the function where we're getting
requested to send a message,
we get the length of the message
that we're going to send.
[Transcript missing]
and OpenPlay are cross-platform,
open source networking
APIs targeted at game developers.
is a platform for networking and
networking for all kinds of users.
It is a platform for networking and
[Transcript missing]
Then you're going to set
the NetSprocket header size,
and that size is going to include
the entire size of the packet,
and that's how NetSprocket knows how
much data to send over the connection.
is a multi-task network of
software and software development
tools that can be used to
is a multi-task network of open
source networking APIs that are
designed to be able to provide
[Transcript missing]
You can also have normal messages,
which are datagrams.
They are one-try messages.
They're sent out immediately
when you ask for them to be sent,
but you do not know if they're
going to get there or not.
So if that's important to you,
you either want to use the
registered or you want to have
packet tracking on your own.
You can also have a junk message,
which is low priority messages.
If you have a very busy game
and you want to send out like
little taunts or something,
that would be a good junk message because
they are only sent when there's not,
when the bandwidth is not being used.
Therefore, if you have a lot of
movement data being sent,
is a software developer at
the University of Michigan.
He is the founder and CEO of NetSprocket.
is a multi-task platform that offers
a wide range of services and services
that are available for all players.
You can access the services and services
and services in the NetSpocket app.
You can also use the NetSpocket
app to access the services and
services in the NetSpocket app.
For this,
you get information about the game,
and then you simply index
into the structure and return
the value that is there.
The OpenPlay.h file has
all the structures defined,
so you can look into that file to
figure out what structures and what
information is available in each.
You can get information about groups,
players, and games in a similar fashion.
Now, once you have everybody set up,
you're connected,
you're going to be running
your main game loop.
And in that loop,
you want to call a function to get your
messages and handle each of the different
messages that you're going to receive.
is a software developer at
the University of Missouri.
He is the founder and CEO of NetSprocket.
You're going to have two
basic types of messages.
You're going to have
NetSprocket type messages,
and these are going to be messages
like a player has left the game,
a player has joined the game,
the host has terminated the game.
Those NetSprocket message types, again,
are defined in OpenPlay.h.
The example program handles all
the basic types in the game,
plus it gives you a switch
statement pre-built with every
message type already in it,
even though it may not handle every
single one of them for that game.
You're also going to have
application-defined messages.
You know, shot fired, player moved.
In this example, there are messages
that are just messages.
There are questions that would be
asked and answers that would be given.
And again,
when you're done with the message,
be sure to release it.
When you're ready to quit the
game or just end the game,
you simply need to dispose of the game.
In this case, we're passing it the
forced termination flag.
This means that you do not
want to wait for anything,
shut the game down, and go on.
And if you're the host,
this would force all the clients to quit,
and it would send them a
host terminated message.
If you are hosting a game,
you then have a few more things
to do because you created some
information earlier in order to be
able to start that hosting process.
You're going to want to go through
and free up all that information.
The first thing you're going
to do is get the number of
protocols that are in the list,
and this is the way you should do that.
Don't assume that something
hasn't been added to the list.
In a later version of NetSprocket,
maybe protocols are added to
the list without your knowledge,
So be sure to use the list count and
not assume that you know what it is.
is a multi-task, multi-task, multi-task,
multi-task, multi-task, multi-task,
multi-task, multi-task, multi-task.
For each item in the list reference,
you are going to want to
get the protocol reference.
You are going to want to remove
that reference from the list.
That doesn't free the reference.
It just removes it from that list.
Then you can actually dispose
of that protocol reference.
[Transcript missing]
So we're going to cover a little
bit about the protocol usage now.
The protocol usage,
or the protocol API usage,
is a bit more complicated,
and I couldn't make it fit into a nice
little slide presentation very well.
So we're going to cover this
a little bit in the abstract.
It follows the same general
format as the NetSprocket API,
because that's how we arranged
it in the example code,
so that it would be easier to understand.
There's a lot of issues it has to deal
with that the NetSprocket code does not,
so that is one of the
reasons why it doesn't fit.
and OpenPlay are cross-platform,
open source networking
APIs targeted at game developers.
NetSprocket and
OpenPlay are cross-platform,
open source networking
APIs targeted at game developers.
So if you're going to start up a server,
you're going to have to create
a protocol configuration.
And protocol create
config is what does that.
It basically creates something similar
to a protocol reference in NetSprocket.
There's a string that you can
retrieve with each reference that is
a C string and it has a lot of the
basic things like IP address equals,
port equals, etc.
is a very popular
platform for networking.
Once you get that on the host side,
you're going to want to replace
the port in the string with the
port that you want to listen to,
because what will be there
will be just the default one
that the protocol API created.
[Transcript missing]
is a host of NetSprocket.
If you are a host that also
wants to play on that game,
you're going to have to create a separate
client connection to yourself so that
you can receive and send information.
For a client, it starts out very similar.
You're going to create
a config reference.
You're going to retrieve
the string for that.
In this case,
you're going to want to replace
the IP address and the port to
match what the server expects.
In the example code,
there is a function for
making this a lot easier.
You pass it in the string identifier
that you want to replace and
the value you want to replace
that reference's value with.
So, again,
you create a new protocol config,
and then you open an
endpoint to the server.
Sending messages with protocol API is
a little bit different in that you
have to do everything yourself.
All you have is an endpoint
to another computer.
So if you're going to send information,
you need to create the header yourself,
and that header needs to have all
the information you need in order
to send and receive that message.
The length of the
message may be important,
it may not.
The type of message should probably
be in there unless you have some
other way of identifying them.
So you're going to...
is a platform for you to use to
create and manage your own NetSpot.
You can use it to
is a multi-task network of
software and software development,
and is a multi-task network of
software and software development.
You are going to send out the
packet with protocol send packet.
And if you have a bunch
of clients connected,
instead of one call,
you are going to have to
go through your own loop.
is sending out packets to
each individual client.
This means, of course,
that you have to keep track of in your
game how many clients are connected,
what their endpoints are,
and all that other information
that NetSprocket handles for you.
Here's one of the things where
the complexity issues come up.
All your messages are received
in a callback function that
is called an interrupt time.
The protocol API has an interrupt
firing that is looking for
incoming data on all the endpoints.
And when it gets it,
it's going to call your callback
function for you to handle that data.
is a software developer at
the University of Michigan.
He is the CEO of NetSprocket.
is a multi-task network.
The data is not going to be
handled for you by the protocol
APIs like it is in NetSprocket.
In the example program,
there's a linked list that's
used to handle the messages,
and as they come in,
they get added to the linked list,
and in the main application,
the linked list is transversed in
order to retrieve the messages.
You want to do as little as possible,
of course, in your callback function.
So, there's a couple codes that the
protocol API uses when talking
to your callback function.
It tells you why you're getting called
and what information you're being sent,
and all that's documented in
the OpenPlay documentation as
well as in the OpenPlay.h file.
[Transcript missing]
is a very popular
platform for networking.
There is a function called
protocol receive packet.
That is how you get the
information from your endpoint.
is a global network of software
and software developers that are
committed to the development,
is a non-profit organization that is
committed to helping developers to
create and manage their own And then,
of course,
because you are in an interrupt,
you really don't want to handle any
messages in the callback function.
You want to queue them up and let the
main loop or a separate thread handle
those for you so that you use as little
time in the interrupt as possible.
So when you're finished,
shutting down requires
a little bit of work.
You have to go through and close all
your endpoints that have been created.
The server is going to have to go
through looping through all the connected
clients and close each endpoint.
It's opened up to every client.
The clients are going to
have to do a little bit less.
They should only have one or
two endpoints open to the host.
And then once you've actually told
Protocol API to close those endpoints,
you need to loop through a little
message handling loop and wait for
those endpoints to actually close down.
Because you will probably get
some termination packets and other
information that you want to make sure
you empty all of the endpoint buffers
before you actually leave your app.
and OpenPlay are cross-platform,
open source networking
APIs targeted at game developers.
The OpenPlay API calling
your callback function.
That would end up in badness.
is a global network of open source
networking APIs that are used to support
and manage open source networking.
So, protocol API in summary,
it's more complex as
compared to NetSprocket,
a little bit less complex
as compared to the raw,
like OpenTransport or Sockets usage.
You have to be really careful
with your callback function.
That is the thing that's
going to really end up being
[Transcript missing]
The example code is on the 2.1
release available on the website.
It handles all of this
stuff that I've mentioned,
including memory interrupt safe routines,
replacing information in
the protocol config strings,
reassembling the packet.
It is not handled, however,
because the demo uses only datagrams.
and OpenPlay are cross-platform,
open source networking
APIs targeted at game developers.
has mentioned before there's a lot of
products right now that are shipping
that use OpenPlay or NetSprocket APIs.
This is a partial list and there's
more that are in development
and we expect there to be quite
a few more over the next year.
So,
Now I'm going to give
you a demonstration here.
Alright,
what we have running here is GameSmith.
It uses NetSprocket to
do all of its networking,
and it makes good use of almost
every part of the NetSprocket APIs.
is a game-finding service.
One of the very cool things it
does is that it uses groups in
NetSprocket to handle rooms.
So when you move from room to room,
What GameSmith does is it moves
that player into another group,
and that's how the user interface
knows who's in what room,
is by the NetSprocket groups.
So if you have a game that
you want to have multiple
people doing different things,
groups are a great usage for that.
[Transcript missing]
So, you'll notice I gave both of
those a password and those were
the passwords that were passed in
from that dialog to NetSprocket.
The game is really quite complex.
It needed this one gigahertz
machine and the powerful graphics
card to handle all the 3D text.
Basically, question answers,
you type an answer, type an answer,
[Transcript missing]
will be a little bit more
in depth on the topic.
So, a little overview on different
APIs and how they compare
to OpenPlay and its APIs.
We'll do a little bit on DirectPlay and
OpenTransport and Sockets.
will be presenting his presentation
on the NetSprocket and OpenPlay.
He will also be presenting
his presentation on the
NetSprocket and OpenPlay.
So, for direct play,
some of the similarities would be that
The DirectPlay API set compares most
closely to the NetSprocket API set.
They're both high-level APIs.
They both handle things like games,
players, groups,
and all the basic requirements of passing
messages for the game back and forth.
and NetSprocket provide about the
same type of message flexibility
as far as sending in reliable
and unreliable type packets.
They both do the important job of
handling message reassembly for you.
So if you're looking at
DirectPlay applications and you're
wanting to use OpenPlay instead,
then NetSprocket API would
probably be the best fit for that.
will be talking about some of the pros to
using OpenPlay as opposed to DirectPlay.
Obviously, one,
it's platform independent,
so it will run on a lot of different
platforms that DirectPlay will not.
is also going to handle byte
swapping issues for you where,
of course, DirectPlay will not because it
doesn't have to worry about that ever.
OpenPlay's NetSprocket
API is easier to use.
There's fewer calls that are
needed to get it going and have
your game actually up and running.
It's also less vulnerable
to system upgrades.
If somebody installs a
new version of DirectX,
your DirectPlay app may or
may not work depending on what
they changed in DirectPlay.
also provides low and high level APIs.
So while the high level API may
not provide everything you want,
you can always go down directly
to one of the lower level
APIs to get that functionality.
And, of course,
another big benefit is that the
OpenPlay project is open source,
meaning that you have full access
to everything about the API.
If you need to add features,
you find a bug that you need to fix,
it's all there and available for you.
It's also a good point if you may
need to port it to another system,
like a console,
or if there's a future OS system
that you end up wanting to support,
you'll be able to do that.
There are some cons,
and we'll cover those a
little bit briefly here.
OpenPlay's user interface is
not as robust as DirectPlay's.
It's actually a very
simple user interface,
but since most games actually want
to put up their own user interface,
it's usually not a big deal.
But if it is for you,
that might be a consideration.
DirectPlay has a voice functionality
where you can talk to a microphone
and it will transmit that to the
players in a game and give you chat
over voice kind of functionality.
OpenPlay does not provide this.
There's nothing that is preventing it.
It's mainly the voice compression
codec that is missing.
So if that's an important thing to you,
OpenPlay may not fit very well.
There's a few things that DirectPlay has
functionality-wise that OpenPlay doesn't.
There's some statistical things
like how much traffic am I sending,
what's the ping time,
a little bit of that kind of statistical
gathering that OpenPlay does not.
Of course,
some enterprising developer can
obviously add that to the code and
submit it back to the community.
. .
The OpenPlay community is going to be
smaller than the DirectX community.
There's not as many developers out there,
so it may or may not be
harder to find information.
So far,
all the requests to the OpenPlay list
have been able to be answered,
but that might be an
issue for some developers.
[Transcript missing]
So, if you're going to be porting
a DirectPlay application,
Again, I would suggest that you look
at using the NetSprocket APIs.
They're going to match up most closely to
what the DirectPlay application is using,
and I believe that that's
pretty much what all of the
Mac porting houses currently use,
is the NetSprocket APIs.
If you have not done a
NetSprocket game before,
I would obviously look at the new
NetSprocket example code so that you
can come up to speed most quickly and
get a better idea of how it fits into
matching up with that direct play usage.
is a very good idea to
factor out the code.
Initially, that's going to take a
little bit more time,
but once you have everything
into one or two files,
it's a lot easier to control the
access and therefore port it.
is a multi-task platform that offers a
wide range of support for all types of
[Transcript missing]
Okay, we're going to do basically the
same thing in comparing it to
the OpenTransport and Sockets.
[Transcript missing]
is a very popular network
of network functions,
so it's going to be pretty
similar in using those.
They both have the datagram
and stream type connections.
They all use the TCP/IP transport system.
is a developer of
NetSprocket and OpenPlay.
He is the founder of
is a developer at OpenPlay.
A lot of the details in OpenPlay are
handled for you that you must handle
yourself if you are using one of
these lower level APIs directly.
and OpenPlay are cross-platform.
And while, for instance,
Sockets is cross-platform to
a lot of different things,
OpenPlay is cross-platform
to a much higher degree.
There's not little things about
each platform that are different.
It's the same on each one.
And if you're thinking about, like,
OpenTransport, of course,
OpenTransport's not very
cross-platform at all.
It also has, of course,
its own set of unique features that
should help you get your game up and
going networking-wise quicker than
if you were to use an open transport
or sockets type low-level interface.
is a member of the OpenPlay community.
He is the CEO of NetSprocket.
While this hasn't gotten
completely functional on TCP/IP,
we have got it working
to a pretty good extent.
And if you're playing on a local LAN,
you don't have to have some special
type of functionality that you have to
write if you're using a lower level API.
is a multi-task network
of software and software
development tools that are used to
Some of the cons.
You're not going to have the
full control of your networking
access that you would have if you
were using the lowest-level API.
So if that's going to be
critically important to you,
that may be a reason that
OpenPlay wouldn't work.
It's also going to add a small amount
of overhead because it's doing some
of the things that it does for you.
This overhead has not proven
to be a major deal in any of
the games or any of the testing
applications that we have seen,
but obviously it does
add some overhead to it.
So if you're in a really data-driven,
critical application,
that might be an issue.
also might be overkill for
some really simple usage.
If you're just doing
something really simple,
you may not need all of
OpenPlay's functionality.
is also not fully optimized,
which I would hope all of
the low-level APIs are.
and OpenPlay are cross-platform,
open source networking
APIs targeted at game developers.
This is a broad array of topics related
to NetSprocket and OpenPlay on Mac OS X.
NetSprocket and
OpenPlay are cross-platform,
open source networking
APIs targeted at game developers.
This is a broad array of topics related
to NetSprocket and OpenPlay on Mac OS X.
[Transcript missing]
So, porting hints.
First thing again,
look at the new example program
so that you can get a good idea of
how it fits to what you're porting.
Factor out your networking code
so that you only have one thing
to touch and not a whole bunch of
things scattered throughout the code.
If you're looking for something
that's as similar to the OpenTransport
or Sockets usage as you can get,
you want to be looking
at the protocol APIs.
is a very popular networker.
However, it may benefit you to
rewrite the networking,
especially if you can factor it out
using the NetSprocket APIs because the
NetSprocket APIs are going to be a lot
easier to use and they are a little bit
quicker to get implemented and running.
So, starting to wrap this thing up,
one thing that everybody should
keep in mind is that OpenPlay and
NetSprocket have merged in the past.
Like I said, they were separate projects.
They're now one project.
So, when you think of OpenPlay,
it's both.
The base idea of OpenPlay is
to make networking easy,
and of course we hope we've done that.
If there's things you find that
are missing from those APIs,
be sure to let us know
or contribute changes.
gives you a choice of high and low
level APIs that you can work with.
of course it's also cross-platform,
which is one of the big things that we're
trying to keep everybody informed of.
Protocol independent,
and you can also write new protocol
modules if you find a need for one.
is an open source project
and it has active members
and an active mailing list.
[Transcript missing]
And if you use the
OpenPlay project in your code,
be sure to let me know or
somebody on the list know,
because you never know when your name
will appear on a slide at a show.
The technical documentation
that is available.
We have the NetSprocket
1.7 documentation.
It's a little bit out of date.
And if you look at testing.rtf,
it will tell you pretty much where
we stand in the terms of how our
functionality matches up with the 1.7.
And you should always refer
to the OpenPlay.h file if you
find something that doesn't
compile from the documentation.
I know that there's a few
constants that have been renamed,
for instance.
But for the most part,
the 1.7 documentation does still apply.
The OpenPlay API is a new
document that was written recently
by one of our contributors.
It's a pretty good general
description of using the protocol API.
It's very well done.
There is the older API reference
for the protocol interface as well.
And if you were looking at writing
modules or using the module interface,
there's the writing op-net modules.
And all of those are in the documentation
folder when you get the OpenPlay archive.
So, here's a bunch of sessions that
somehow relate to this one.
And if you had a time machine,
you could go back and catch
each and every one of them.
If you do not have a time machine,
the next best thing you can do is get
the DVD set and all of these sessions
in their full length are on there.
So there are a few sessions that are
still happening today and tomorrow.
Open, the advanced OpenGL sessions here.
and the core networking session
would also be a good one if
you're interested in networking.
[Transcript missing]
is the Darwin project manager.
If you have questions that aren't
code related but are more related
to the Darwin project or the
OpenPlay open source effort,
you can direct those questions to him.
If you send them to me,
it's not a big deal.
I'll forward them to him.
I might even be able to answer them.
is the first developer
to launch NetSprocket.
For the most up-to-date information,
you should go to the
OpenPlay project page.
This is the new URL that they've set up.
This will have the latest
release package on it.
In fact, right now it does have
the 2.1 release on it.
It's 2.1 R1.
There are two packages available there.
There's the builds and the source code.
And there's also the mailing
list link and so forth.